voice/sensory_wakeupword/README.md, before:

# Sensory Wake Word Detection Demos

This demo showcases how we can use Sensory's [TrulyHandsfree](https://www.sensory.com/wake-word/) solution for wake word detection to control Silicon Labs boards with our voice. In the provided examples we use this to control on-board LEDs. Sensory's solution uses deep neural networks, and several network models for different wake word phrases are included in this demo. All of these were trained online in just a few clicks through Sensory's platform, and converted to C headers using `xxd`.

Pre-built binaries are provided for the Silicon Labs [Thunderboard Sense 2](https://www.silabs.com/development-tools/thunderboard/thunderboard-sense-two-kit) and [EFR32xG24](https://www.silabs.com/development-tools/wireless/efr32xg24-dev-kit) dev kits. The demo can also be built for other Silicon Labs devices that have a mic and at least two LEDs.

Source code in this repository is adapted from our Embedded World 2022 demo.

## Prerequisites

To run the prebuilt binaries, you'll need

- An [EFR32xG24](https://www.silabs.com/development-tools/wireless/efr32xg24-dev-kit) dev kit or a [Thunderboard Sense 2](https://www.silabs.com/development-tools/thunderboard/thunderboard-sense-two-kit) dev kit.
- `commander` ([Simplicity Commander](https://www.silabs.com/developers/mcu-programming-options#programming)) to flash the binaries onto your device.

To build the source code, you'll need

- `make`
- [GNU ARM Embedded Toolchain](https://developer.arm.com/downloads/-/gnu-rm), version 10.3-2021.10 or 10.3-2021.07
- `slc` ([Silicon Labs Configurator](https://www.silabs.com/documents/public/user-guides/ug520-software-project-generation-configuration-with-slc-cli.pdf)) for project generation. Installation instructions can be found under Section 2 in the provided link.
- [Gecko SDK >= v4.1](https://github.com/SiliconLabs/gecko_sdk)

To configure `slc` to use the Gecko SDK and ARM GNU Embedded Toolchain you downloaded, run

```sh
slc configuration --sdk=<path/to/gecko_sdk>
slc configuration --gcc-toolchain=<path/to/arm-gnu-gcc-toolchain>
```

## Prebuilt Binaries

Prebuilt binaries for Silicon Labs' EFR32xG24 Dev Kit and Thunderboard Sense 2 are provided under [`bin/`](bin/). These run with the `hello_gecko` model. For details on this model and other available models, see the section on [#Model Selection](#model-selection).

You can program your own device with these using [Simplicity Commander](https://www.silabs.com/developers/mcu-programming-options#programming),

```sh
# Assuming you've connected a EFR32xG24 Dev Kit
# to your machine over USB,
commander flash bin/efr32xg24_dev_kit/sensory_wakeupword.s37
# Note: If you encounter issues when flashing,
# try running `commander device recover` first.
```

### Example Output

Here's a sample output, obtained using `screen` to read from to the USB serial port where an EFR32xG24 running this demo was connected.

```txt
#==============================================#
#   Sensory TrulyHandsfree Wake Word Example   #
#==============================================#
#   Core Frequency:              78000000 [Hz] #
#   Sample rate:                    16000 [Hz] #
#   Model Name:                    hello_gecko #
#==============================================#
[k=   384] Recognized Hello Gecko   (id=1) with confidence 1455
[k=   510] Recognized Bye Bye Gecko (id=2) with confidence 3332
[k=   604] Recognized Gecko Green   (id=3) with confidence 4163
[k=   695] Recognized Gecko Red     (id=4) with confidence 3300
Average Inference Time [% of 15ms]: 70
```

## Building

To build the demo for another Silicon Labs board, you will need to:

1. Generate a project for your board based on the demo application. You can do this by importing it into [Simplicity Studio](https://www.silabs.com/developers/simplicity-studio) or by using [Silicon Labs Configurator (SLC)](https://www.silabs.com/documents/public/user-guides/ug520-software-project-generation-configuration-with-slc-cli.pdf).
2. Cross-compile for your target device

### Building for Series 2 Boards

This section shows how to generate and build the demo for a Series 2 board, using BRD2601B (EFR32xG24 Dev Kit) as an example. We're using SLC here, but you can also import the demo project into Simplicity Studio by selecting the `.slcp` project file.

First, generate a project targeting your device,

```sh
slc generate app/sensory_wakeupword.slcp --with brd2601b,device_init_dpll -d target/brd2601b
```

Then, build the project using `make`,

```sh
cd target/brd2601b
make -f sensory_wakeupword.Makefile -j
```

The compiled code can then be found under `target/brd2601b/build/debug`, and can be flashed onto your board as described in the section covering [#Prebuilt Binaries](#prebuilt-binaries).

### Building for Series 1 Boards

Follow the same instructions as above, but omit the `device_init_dpll` component and target a Series 1 board (e.g. BRD4166A) instead.

### Model Selection

There's multiple models to detect different keywords/commands. The model files are located under [`include/model/<model>`](include/model). To choose between them, you can change the model configuration `#include` paths in [`app/app.c`](app/app.c) at line 50,

```c
-#include "model/hello_gecko/net.h"
-#include "model/hello_gecko/search.h"
-#include "model/hello_gecko/command.h"

+#include "model/go_silabs/net.h"
+#include "model/go_silabs/search.h"
+#include "model/go_silabs/command.h"
```

The available models are,

- `hello_gecko`: Detects "Hello Gecko", "Bye Bye Gecko", "Gecko green" and "Gecko red".
- `go_silabs`: Detects "Go Silabs".
- `voice_genie`: Detects "Voice Genie".
- `voice_genie_small`: A smaller model for detecting "Voice Genie".

In addition to controlling LEDs, recognitions are written out over the serial port using UART. The tables in the following sections give an overview of what commands each model supports.

#### Hello Gecko

| Model                | Event         | Command / Trigger              |
|----------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|
|`hello_gecko`         | Green LED On  | "Hello Gecko" or "Gecko Green" |
|                      | Red LED On    | "Hello Gecko" or "Gecko Red"   |
|                      | Green LED Off | "Gecko Red" or "Bye Bye Gecko" |
|                      | Red LED Off   | "Gecko Green" or Bye Bye Gecko |

#### Go Silabs

| Model                | Event         | Command / Trigger              |
|----------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|
|`go_silabs`           | Green LED On  | "Go Silabs"                    |
|                      | Red LED On    | "Go Silabs"                    |
|                      | Green LED Off | Timeout (2s)                   |
|                      | Red LED Off   | Timeout (2s)                   |

#### Voice Genie

| Model                | Event         | Command / Trigger              |
|----------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|
| `voice_genie`        | Green LED On  | "Voice Genie"                  |
|                      | Red LED On    | "Voice Genie"                  |
|                      | Green LED Off | Timeout (2s)                   |
|                      | Red LED Off   | Timeout (2s)                   |

#### Voice Genie (Small)

| Model                | Event         | Command / Trigger              |
|----------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|
|`voice_genie_small`   | Green LED On  | "Voice Genie"                  |
|                      | Red LED On    | "Voice Genie"                  |
|                      | Green LED Off | Timeout (2s)                   |
|                      | Red LED Off   | Timeout (2s)                   |

### Quick Note: Series 1 and Series 2 Boards

There are a couple of differences between builds for Series 1 and Series 2 boards which are described in the following two sections.

#### Floating Point ABI

The demo code links against precompiled libraries from Sensory. These libraries use floating point arithmetic. Due to differences in how apps targeting Series 1 boards and Series 2 boards compile floating point code, we link against separate static libraries when compiling the app for Series 1 and Series 2. Specifically, Series 1 uses `softfp` floating point ABI and Series 2 uses `hard` floating point ABI.

For more details on floating point ABIs, check out [this page](https://embeddedartistry.com/blog/2017/10/11/demystifying-arm-floating-point-compiler-options/).

#### Clock Frequency

Series 2 boards support scaling up the CPU core frequency using the `device_init_dpll` GSDK component. To increase the throughput when running on Series 2 boards, we pull in the `device_init_dpll` component in the corresponding project file. For EFR32xG24, this enables running at 78Mhz instead of 39MHz

## Performance

Below you can find performance numbers recorded using EFR32xG24 with a 78MHz CPU core frequency.

The demo performs inference for voice recognition periodically every 15ms. The inference times shown below indicate how long the inference processing takes, as a percentage of these time windows.

| Model                    |    Inference time [%] | Approx. model size [kB] |
|------------------------- |-----------------------|-------------------------|
|`hello_gecko`             |    72                 |  190                    |
|`go_silabs`               |    63                 |  165                    |
|`voice_genie`             |    57                 |  165                    |
|`voice_genie_small`       |    26                 |  61                     |

### Average Inference Time

[`app/app.c`](app/app.c) has a `#define` named `DISPLAY_INFERENCE_TIME` which can be toggled to select whether the inference time should be printed out over the serial port in addition to the recognitions. It's enabled by default.

## License

Silicon Labs Master Software License Agreement (MSLA).

The licensor of this software is Silicon Laboratories Inc. Your use of this
software is governed by the terms of Silicon Labs Master Software License
Agreement (MSLA) available at
www.silabs.com/about-us/legal/master-software-license-agreement. This
software is distributed to you in Source Code format and is governed by the
sections of the MSLA applicable to Source Code.

Commit message:

fix: add Sensory THF licensing information

voice/sensory_wakeupword/README.md, after:

# Sensory Wake Word Detection Demos

This demo showcases how we can use Sensory's [TrulyHandsfree](https://www.sensory.com/wake-word/) solution for wake word detection to control Silicon Labs boards with our voice. In the provided examples we use this to control on-board LEDs. Sensory's solution uses deep neural networks, and several network models for different wake word phrases are included in this demo. All of these were trained online in just a few clicks through Sensory's platform, and converted to C headers using `xxd`.

Pre-built binaries are provided for the Silicon Labs [Thunderboard Sense 2](https://www.silabs.com/development-tools/thunderboard/thunderboard-sense-two-kit) and [EFR32xG24](https://www.silabs.com/development-tools/wireless/efr32xg24-dev-kit) dev kits. The demo can also be built for other Silicon Labs devices that have a mic and at least two LEDs.

Source code in this repository is adapted from our Embedded World 2022 demo.

## Prerequisites

To run the prebuilt binaries, you'll need

- An [EFR32xG24](https://www.silabs.com/development-tools/wireless/efr32xg24-dev-kit) dev kit or a [Thunderboard Sense 2](https://www.silabs.com/development-tools/thunderboard/thunderboard-sense-two-kit) dev kit.
- `commander` ([Simplicity Commander](https://www.silabs.com/developers/mcu-programming-options#programming)) to flash the binaries onto your device.

To build the source code, you'll need

- `make`
- [GNU ARM Embedded Toolchain](https://developer.arm.com/downloads/-/gnu-rm), version 10.3-2021.10 or 10.3-2021.07
- `slc` ([Silicon Labs Configurator](https://www.silabs.com/documents/public/user-guides/ug520-software-project-generation-configuration-with-slc-cli.pdf)) for project generation. Installation instructions can be found under Section 2 in the provided link.
- [Gecko SDK >= v4.1](https://github.com/SiliconLabs/gecko_sdk)

To configure `slc` to use the Gecko SDK and ARM GNU Embedded Toolchain you downloaded, run

```sh
slc configuration --sdk=<path/to/gecko_sdk>
slc configuration --gcc-toolchain=<path/to/arm-gnu-gcc-toolchain>
```

## Prebuilt Binaries

Prebuilt binaries for Silicon Labs' EFR32xG24 Dev Kit and Thunderboard Sense 2 are provided under [`bin/`](bin/). These run with the `hello_gecko` model. For details on this model and other available models, see the section on [#Model Selection](#model-selection).

You can program your own device with these using [Simplicity Commander](https://www.silabs.com/developers/mcu-programming-options#programming),

```sh
# Assuming you've connected a EFR32xG24 Dev Kit
# to your machine over USB,
commander flash bin/efr32xg24_dev_kit/sensory_wakeupword.s37
# Note: If you encounter issues when flashing,
# try running `commander device recover` first.
```

### Example Output

Here's a sample output, obtained using `screen` to read from to the USB serial port where an EFR32xG24 running this demo was connected.

```txt
#==============================================#
#   Sensory TrulyHandsfree Wake Word Example   #
#==============================================#
#   Core Frequency:              78000000 [Hz] #
#   Sample rate:                    16000 [Hz] #
#   Model Name:                    hello_gecko #
#==============================================#
[k=   384] Recognized Hello Gecko   (id=1) with confidence 1455
[k=   510] Recognized Bye Bye Gecko (id=2) with confidence 3332
[k=   604] Recognized Gecko Green   (id=3) with confidence 4163
[k=   695] Recognized Gecko Red     (id=4) with confidence 3300
Average Inference Time [% of 15ms]: 70
```

## Building

To build the demo for another Silicon Labs board, you will need to:

1. Generate a project for your board based on the demo application. You can do this by importing it into [Simplicity Studio](https://www.silabs.com/developers/simplicity-studio) or by using [Silicon Labs Configurator (SLC)](https://www.silabs.com/documents/public/user-guides/ug520-software-project-generation-configuration-with-slc-cli.pdf).
2. Cross-compile for your target device

### Building for Series 2 Boards

This section shows how to generate and build the demo for a Series 2 board, using BRD2601B (EFR32xG24 Dev Kit) as an example. We're using SLC here, but you can also import the demo project into Simplicity Studio by selecting the `.slcp` project file.

First, generate a project targeting your device,

```sh
slc generate app/sensory_wakeupword.slcp --with brd2601b,device_init_dpll -d target/brd2601b
```

Then, build the project using `make`,

```sh
cd target/brd2601b
make -f sensory_wakeupword.Makefile -j
```

The compiled code can then be found under `target/brd2601b/build/debug`, and can be flashed onto your board as described in the section covering [#Prebuilt Binaries](#prebuilt-binaries).

### Building for Series 1 Boards

Follow the same instructions as above, but omit the `device_init_dpll` component and target a Series 1 board (e.g. BRD4166A) instead.

### Model Selection

There's multiple models to detect different keywords/commands. The model files are located under [`include/model/<model>`](include/model). To choose between them, you can change the model configuration `#include` paths in [`app/app.c`](app/app.c) at line 50,

```c
-#include "model/hello_gecko/net.h"
-#include "model/hello_gecko/search.h"
-#include "model/hello_gecko/command.h"

+#include "model/go_silabs/net.h"
+#include "model/go_silabs/search.h"
+#include "model/go_silabs/command.h"
```

The available models are,

- `hello_gecko`: Detects "Hello Gecko", "Bye Bye Gecko", "Gecko green" and "Gecko red".
- `go_silabs`: Detects "Go Silabs".
- `voice_genie`: Detects "Voice Genie".
- `voice_genie_small`: A smaller model for detecting "Voice Genie".

In addition to controlling LEDs, recognitions are written out over the serial port using UART. The tables in the following sections give an overview of what commands each model supports.

#### Hello Gecko

| Model                | Event         | Command / Trigger              |
|----------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|
|`hello_gecko`         | Green LED On  | "Hello Gecko" or "Gecko Green" |
|                      | Red LED On    | "Hello Gecko" or "Gecko Red"   |
|                      | Green LED Off | "Gecko Red" or "Bye Bye Gecko" |
|                      | Red LED Off   | "Gecko Green" or Bye Bye Gecko |

#### Go Silabs

| Model                | Event         | Command / Trigger              |
|----------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|
|`go_silabs`           | Green LED On  | "Go Silabs"                    |
|                      | Red LED On    | "Go Silabs"                    |
|                      | Green LED Off | Timeout (2s)                   |
|                      | Red LED Off   | Timeout (2s)                   |

#### Voice Genie

| Model                | Event         | Command / Trigger              |
|----------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|
| `voice_genie`        | Green LED On  | "Voice Genie"                  |
|                      | Red LED On    | "Voice Genie"                  |
|                      | Green LED Off | Timeout (2s)                   |
|                      | Red LED Off   | Timeout (2s)                   |

#### Voice Genie (Small)

| Model                | Event         | Command / Trigger              |
|----------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|
|`voice_genie_small`   | Green LED On  | "Voice Genie"                  |
|                      | Red LED On    | "Voice Genie"                  |
|                      | Green LED Off | Timeout (2s)                   |
|                      | Red LED Off   | Timeout (2s)                   |

### Quick Note: Series 1 and Series 2 Boards

There are a couple of differences between builds for Series 1 and Series 2 boards which are described in the following two sections.

#### Floating Point ABI

The demo code links against precompiled libraries from Sensory. These libraries use floating point arithmetic. Due to differences in how apps targeting Series 1 boards and Series 2 boards compile floating point code, we link against separate static libraries when compiling the app for Series 1 and Series 2. Specifically, Series 1 uses `softfp` floating point ABI and Series 2 uses `hard` floating point ABI.

For more details on floating point ABIs, check out [this page](https://embeddedartistry.com/blog/2017/10/11/demystifying-arm-floating-point-compiler-options/).

#### Clock Frequency

Series 2 boards support scaling up the CPU core frequency using the `device_init_dpll` GSDK component. To increase the throughput when running on Series 2 boards, we pull in the `device_init_dpll` component in the corresponding project file. For EFR32xG24, this enables running at 78Mhz instead of 39MHz

## Performance

Below you can find performance numbers recorded using EFR32xG24 with a 78MHz CPU core frequency.

The demo performs inference for voice recognition periodically every 15ms. The inference times shown below indicate how long the inference processing takes, as a percentage of these time windows.

| Model                    |    Inference time [%] | Approx. model size [kB] |
|------------------------- |-----------------------|-------------------------|
|`hello_gecko`             |    72                 |  190                    |
|`go_silabs`               |    63                 |  165                    |
|`voice_genie`             |    57                 |  165                    |
|`voice_genie_small`       |    26                 |  61                     |

### Average Inference Time

[`app/app.c`](app/app.c) has a `#define` named `DISPLAY_INFERENCE_TIME` which can be toggled to select whether the inference time should be printed out over the serial port in addition to the recognitions. It's enabled by default.

## License

Silicon Labs Master Software License Agreement (MSLA) in combination with Sensory THF Micro End User License Agreement (Sensory THF Micro EULA).

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
